Steve stories. My name is Steve Fletcher and in 1990 I founded Swickr Carnival
who have organized Cardiff Carnival ever since.
Steve stories number one. Swickr Carnival begins. My working life in the arts and
Cardiff Carnival are closely linked. I started Swickr Carnival in 1990 over 25
years ago but the idea of an ongoing carnival arts organization covering
South Wales to deliver large-scale community participation and celebration
crystallized the year before in 1989. In that year I was working with a
groundbreaking theatre company based in Cardiff called Theatre Taliesin Wales
who I helped produce a trilogy of Indo-Celtic community plays. The
community plays used parallels between stories and art forms from India and
Wales and brought together hundreds of community performers and were enjoyed by
large family audiences. All the community plays were based at the Gujarati
Samaj Centre in Grangetown in Cardiff and part of my job was to publicize and
recruit community performers many of whom had no previous experience in the
arts and once they were on board to try to ensure they enjoyed the opportunity
to the max. The community plays were very successful short-term projects
however after three years it was quite clear to me that Theatre Taliesin Wales
had helped create a huge wellspring of enthusiasm and interest from people from
different backgrounds coming together using intercultural arts to create
something fabulous and enjoyable for all to view. So in 1990 when Glasgow was
appointed European City of Culture I set up an intercultural project for that
company in Glasgow. This meant that the head of steam built up by their work in
Cardiff had come to an end and many would-be participants and future
audiences in Cardiff were doomed to disappointment. So the stage was set for
a new ongoing arts organization to be based in Cardiff to expand upon
Taliesin's earlier successes and so South Wales Intercultural Community Arts
better known as SWCCA was born. SWCCA officially started in April 1990 and our
first two workshops in that month involved samba drumming and carnival
arts. The samba drumming workshop took place at the City Centre Youth Project
in Charles Street, Cardiff and was the first ever of its sort in Wales. It was
so successful that SWCCA Carnival started Samba Galaise, the Cardiff School of
Samba which continued to this very day as a successful community percussion
group and in turn has inspired several more ongoing samba drumming groups right
across Wales. The second workshop in April 1990 involved introducing carnival
arts to Cardiff and my point of inspiration was the wonderfully
flamboyant carnival form found in Trinidad and across the Caribbean. This
carnival tradition is known as the M.A.S.S. M.A.S.S. is short for the word
masquerade. SWCCA Carnival brought Catherine Chan, carnival designer and
M.A.S.S. maker from Trinidad to Cardiff and the first carnival arts workshops
took place in Mount Stewart Junior School in Cardiff Bay which was then the
most culturally diverse school in the whole of Wales and also on an open
access basis at the family-friendly Cardiff City Farm on Sloper Road which has
now sadly been replaced by commercial development.